# Data Stories

1. First, what we wanted to do in general was to tell a story to a specific **audience**: we imagined as if our dashboard was going to be consulted by people that want to research this pandemic. So, we decided to begin The Covid Story with how actually people that contracted Covid began their experience with this disease: Health Pre-conditions. Visualization number 1 therefore starts with the health status in which patients faced Covid. So we decided to make a bar chart where the user can choose the Health Condition to see: Tabaquism, Hypertension, etc, so that researchers have quite more detail about them. Also, we compared with a transition between men and health pre-conditions, because they can be of quite some use to people reasearching this disease.

2. Then, The Covid Story continues with the second visualization: Covid Cases Evolution during the first week of the disease. This is because, after knowing the health state of people **before** Covid, now researchers can see how this conditions actually *evolved* through time. For this we chose a circle chart animation through a 7 days timeline, so that the audience can perceive better what the numbers of new Covid cases actually meant. In this way, the circle radius and Y position represents the amount of new Covid cases, and their evolution changes with the X position. We also added the number of actual cases in each circle, because the audience needs **concrete** data if they are researching.

3. After that, The Covid Story continues with the third visualization: Death Rate. Now, after seeing the pre-conditions and evolution of the cases, it was time to show the consequences. That's why we now show a dynamic pie chart that graphically presents to the user how covid death rate happened in our country. The pie chart is an excellent choice when the user needs to perceive a proportion of a whole, which in this case, was the total number of deaths. You can shift between Men, Women or Both. This visualization was especifically challenging in the backend part as well, because we had to accumulate and summarize results now, instead of choosing which columns to provide in a json.